Earvin “Magic” Johnson
Keynote
Having left the basketball court for the boardroom, Earvin “Magic” Johnson has successfully parlayed his skills and tenacity from the court into the business world as Chairman and CEO of Magic Johnson Enterprises (MJE). MJE provides high-quality products and services that focus primarily on ethnically diverse and underserved urban communities.
Still a commanding presence in popular culture, Johnson made history in 2012 when he became co-owner of MLB’s Los Angeles Dodgers. He also co-owns the Los Angeles Sparks of the WNBA, Major League Soccer’s Los Angeles Football Club, and eSports franchise Team Liquid. He continues to expand his influence through his many businesses that include: EquiTrust Life Insurance Company, and SodexoMAGIC, a food service and facilities management company.
The Lansing native is constantly evolving and remaining relevant in a dynamic digital age by broadening his scope into infrastructure and technology. Through a joint-venture fund, Johnson is investing millions of dollars on infrastructure improvement across the United States.
In 2022, Johnson released his first non-fungible token project with Dapper Labs, leading the first ever successful Anthropology set in company history. He is currently expanding his business acumen into the metaverse, announcing his investment and ownership of a football and basketball team with SimWin Sports. He is also one of the leading investors in a number of minority-owned technology companies that include Uncharted Power, an award-winning power and data infrastructure technology company and Jopwell, a diversity and hiring recruiting platform.
The accomplishments and global impact of Earvin “Magic” Johnson are on display in
They Call Me Magic
, the only first-person account of Johnson’s life from childhood to business. The AppleTV+ project was the top selling documentary series per episode when released in 2022.
Johnson currently serves on the board of directors for Fanatics, a sports licensing company. With his unique positioning as a businessman spanning multiple industries and generations, he aims to help companies expand and foster a positive impact domestically and globally.
Twitter
Share

