Mike Dodd serves as Principal at National Security Innovation Capitol (NSIC), a Department of Defense (DoD) initiative that accelerates the development of dual-use technologies critical to our national security and economic competitiveness. At NSIC, Dodd develops technology and market insight into autonomy, communications, power, sensors and space, microelectronics, hypersonics, among others. Dodd develops NSIC’s market map and investment strategy and acts as the program manager for funding projects in which NSIC negotiates development contracts, grants, loans or loan guarantees with selected technology startup companies. Specific responsibilities include: Developing a market map and investment strategy for each of several technology areas of priority interest to NSIC in line with defense modernization priorities. Working with DoD/Government components to identify and document areas of future interest and need for hardware technologies and products to address DoD strategic priorities. Establishing and cultivating relevant contacts in the venture capital and startup worlds with respect to the selected priority areas. Mission Partners include: NSWC Crane, SOCOM/SOCPAC (Special Operations Command Pacific), TSOC (Theater Special Operations Command), INDOPACOM (Indo-Pacific Command) USARPAC (US Army Pacific), EUCOM and CENTCOM. 
Dodd serves as Advisor for Strategic Relationships at the National Security Technology Accelerator (NSTXL) where he works with a broad range of individuals and groups, government customers, large defense contractors and non-traditional entities. His role involves connecting dots and causing “meaningful collisions” between those with a common goal of creating cutting-edge technology to serve our national security interests.In the private sector, Dodd serves as Advisory Board Chairman of Dioltas, a strategic advisory, consulting & private investing company. He has assisted dozens of clients win and perform on government contracts, with total contract values exceeding $1.2B. Dodd advised dozens of companies on all facets of business strategy, planning, development, management, marketing, directorship and obtaining access to capital. When a considerable gap in the marketplace was identified he assisted to incubate and invest in companies or to create unique and disruptive solutions to industries or create a new demand.
A retired Mustang Marine Corps Infantry officer, Dodd served with distinction in the Marine Corps for 11 years. He held leadership roles as a rifle platoon commander, rifle company executive officer, OIC for the 1st Marine Division scout sniper school and operations officer of the 1st Marine Reconnaissance Company before service-related injuries led to his early retirement.
