Russell J. Mumper joined Indiana University as the Vice President for Research in 2023 where he oversees the research enterprise for all IU campuses including Bloomington, Indianapolis, the School of Medicine, and five regional campuses. 
From 2019 to 2023 Mumper served as Vice President for Research & Economic Development at The University of Alabama. During his time at UA the research enterprise increased by 113 percent and research and development partnerships with industry increased by nearly 500 percent.Prior to his time at the University of Alabama, Mumper spent 20 years at the University of Kentucky, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the University of Georgia where he served in various college and university-wide leadership positions, overseeing academic and faculty affairs, accreditation, and research and economic development. Mumper also brings extensive entrepreneurial experience having led or founded four interdisciplinary centers or institutes on separate campuses and launched five university-based start-up companies. 
Before starting his academic career in 1999, Mumper spent eight years working the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry in various research and product development leadership positions. His intellectual property and collaborative efforts have contributed to several marketed drug and health products.
Mumper has received nearly $30 million in research grants and contracts and has published more than 310 peer-reviewed scientific manuscripts and abstracts in areas of advanced drug delivery systems, nanotechnology, and medical and health properties of berries and berry extracts. He is a named inventor on 30 awarded U.S. and foreign patents, many of which have been licensed to companies. The recipient of several lifetime awards Mumper has been recognized as a Fellow of the National Academy of Inventors and has served extensively as an expert patent witness and consultant to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
A highly awarded educator and mentor as well, Mumper received campus-wide teaching awards at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the University of Kentucky. His experience and publications relating to a Three-Year Flipped Classroom Initiative to enhance student engagement and learning received national and international attention.
Mumper currently sits on several local, state and national boards and commissions promoting research, innovation and economic development. A respected thought leader, Mumper is a leading expert on the future of higher education, especially relating to the interface of learning and work.Mumper received a B.A. in chemistry and Ph.D. in pharmaceutical sciences from the University of Kentucky.
