• Creator and CEO of Janet’s Planet, Inc.• Director of Education Explore Mars• President of the Advisory Board of the Cosmic Girls Foundation• American Astronautical Society’s 2022 recipient of the Sally K Ride Excellence in Education Award.• Board of Advisors Above Space• NASA JPL Solar System Ambasador• Award-winning Science Educator• Author of Unsung Genius Book Series, Celebrating Unsung Women in Science• 12 Regional Emmy Awards• 5 Gracie Awards• STEM-FLORIDA Award for Exploring Microgravity 35-minute documentary for students 3rd -8th grades• Board of Governors for the National Space Society• 2 Tedx Talks, AWE Inspired Science & How To Inhabit Your Very Own Planet #PlanetYou• Self Appointed Guardian & Shepherdess of the Next Generation of Space Explorers
Janet Ivey, creator of Janet’s Planet is committed to enriching the lives of children via education and live performances, TV, and online programming. With over 27 years in the children’s entertainment and education, Janet has captivated Nashville and beyond with her work. She has received 12 Regional Emmys, five Gracie Awards, for her children’s series Janet’s Planet which airs on 140+ public television stations nationwide. Janet is a NASA JPL Solar System Ambassador, President of Explore Mars, Inc, on the board of governors of the National Space Society, and has won a STEM-FLOR- IDA Award for the “Exploring Microgravity,” educational video about gravity and microgravity, she wrote and produced for Space Florida. Janet’s Planet is a dynamic and fast-paced series geared to 6-11-year-olds and focuses on science, space, history, and health. The short-form series can be seen on public television stations nationwide as well YouTube, BatteryPop, Minnow, and HighBrow in the UK.
Janet is an advocate, educator, communicator, and female role model of STEM/STEAM and is committed to sharing the joy of exploration and discovery with children around the globe. Janet’s mission is to encourage science literacy globally and particularly to embody female science mentor for the next generation of women in space and science. 
Janet grew up in Covington, TN, a little town 45 minutes north of Memphis, TN, the birthplace of Isaac Hayes and the Charms Blow Pop. She played an astronaut on the playground, watched Star Trek, and loved going to her friend Carol’s house because she had walkie-talkies that made playing astronaut and Star Trek even more fun. Janet credits her fifth-grade teacher, Ms. Ernestine Yarborough for inspiring her love of the solar system. Ms.Yarborough hosted a star party in the fall of 1978 where Janet had the chance to look through a telescope for the first time. Witnessing a strong and beautiful female role model know so much about stars and planets and began a lifelong love affair with the cosmos. Part artist, part scientist Janet believes that ART and SCIENCE deserve to be taught side by side in concert with one another. Janet earned her Bachelor’s in Music and Theatre from Belmont University, and is working on her credits for a Master’s Degree in STEAM education.Coming in December 2023 – The JP AstroCast, an educational space podcast for kids 8-12!
