Kristen is the visionary leader and chief executive officer of myCOI, a leading insurance technology company that helps businesses mitigate 3rd party risk and ensure insurance compliance.Her passion for work in the $3.2 billion insurance industry is driven by the total loss of her family home to a fire when she was a teenager. While no one was hurt, the ensuing months of insurance battles provided hurdles no family should have to jump through.After college, Kristen built a real estate career in Indianapolis. There, she rediscovered the pain associated with managing 3rd party compliance. This, coupled with her own family’s past, drove her to make sure no one had to experience what her family experienced. In 2009 Kristen built myCOI to show businesses and individuals how to identify and resolve their downstream insurance gaps. As founder and CEO, she has built a strategic blend of technology and human expertise to solve critical needs: closing insurance gaps, mitigating risk, and seamlessly building business relationships. Under Kristen’s guidance, myCOI has assembled a remarkable portfolio of Fortune 500 enterprises spanning diverse sectors such as construction, property management, municipalities, and more, serving organizations like Dole, the City of Las Vegas, and JE Dunn Construction Company.myCOI established its headquarters in the heart of Indianapolis. Since this transformative period began, myCOI has garnered many awards including nominations for TechPoint Mira Scale Up in 2018 and Exceptional Employer in 2021, bringing home the TechPoint Mira Award for Exceptional Employer in 2022. Also, myCOI was one of IndyStar’s Top Places to Work in 2021 and 22, and has received multiple Powderkeg awards in 2022 for Work-Life Balance, Top Rated Tech, and more. Kristen was also lauded with the IBJ’s coveted Forty Under 40 award. These are just a few of Kristen’s, and myCOI’s, accomplishments.In June 2020 Kristen joined the Indiana Chapter of YPO, a global community of chief executive officers and presidents united by a common vision for advancing leadership excellence and fostering success for constituent businesses. Her selection as the chapter’s member engagement officer highlights her dedication to welcoming and integrating new members and enhancing connections among existing members and their partners.A true Hoosier at heart, Kristen remains an unwavering advocate for the progress and betterment of the Indianapolis community. She complements her professional endeavors with her deep affinity for animal welfare, demonstrated by her advisory position on the Board of the Indianapolis Zoological Society.
